Gadwall and security


This is a collection of notes about Gadwall and various security issues.
See also the Open Web Application Security Project's "Top 10 Risks" 2010
at http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Top_10_2010

1. SQL injection resistance

   Gadwall always uses bind variables to pass untrusted user input to
   the database.

2. XSS (cross-site scripting) resistance

   Gadwall always validates untrusted user input before storing it in
   the database, and (through Mojolicious) escapes all output properly.
   It also uses only validated inputs to construct links.

3. Signed session cookies

   Mojolicious provides cryptographically signed session cookies. The
   cookie values are protected against tampering or forgery by an HMAC
   keyed with a secret password (and Gadwall provides a random secret
   by default). Session data are accepted only through the cookie, and
   not from GET or POST parameters. Session cookies are never included
   in pages or forms or links.

4. Encrypted passwords

   Gadwall uses Crypt::Eksblowfish::Bcrypt to encrypt all passwords for
   storage in the database. The encrypted password resists brute-force
   attacks due to the slow key scheduling stage and repeated rounds of
   encryption.

5. HTTPS deployment

   Gadwall applications should be deployed using HTTPS to avoid leakage
   of plaintext passwords (as submitted to the login form) and session
   cookies (which are equivalent to authenticators). Gadwall refuses to
   serve a login page over HTTP and uses secure (HTTPS-only) cookies, so
   it cannot be deployed insecurely without a concerted effort.

6. CSRF (cross-site request forgery) resistance

   Gadwall resists CSRF attacks using a random double-submit token that
   is set in the session cookie and in every POST form. If the values do
   not match for a POST request, the request is rejected very early. The
   login form is also protected, and the signature on the session cookie
   protects against active network attacks against the CSRF token.

   Of course, GET requests are idempotent, as recommended by HTTP.

7. Route-based authorisation

   Gadwall performs user authorisation tests at the routing stage, so
   that these tests need not be repeated in each handler. Thus users can
   not gain access to administrative pages or even other users' pages by
   tweaking the URL.

8. Re-authentication required to change user data

   Someone who gains unauthorised access to a user's active browser
   session cannot use this to change the user's password, email address,
   or other sensitive details, because the user's password is required
   to confirm these actions.

9. Cryptographically secure random number generation

   Gadwall configures Data::Entropy to seed an AES-CTR generator with a
   256-bit key from /dev/random, and uses its output whenever randomness
   is required. (But it derives the initial seed from /dev/urandom during
   development and testing).

(This document is only an overview, not a complete security analysis.)
